# Demoland engine

A predictive engine for the Alan Turing Institute project DemoLand

## Install

Either clone and pip install or pip install from git.

## Usage

See the notebooks in the `docs` folder.

## How to get Demoland app for a new area?

Top level overview:

1. Generate the required files using the Demoland pipeline Docker container
2. Commit engine-related files to `demoland-engine` repository
3. Commit app-related files to `demoland-web` repository

The rest should be automatic.

### Generate data for a new area using the Demoland pipeline

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> The pipeline requires a decent amount of RAM (about 12GB at peak but we've seen even 22GB when running on Apple Silicon under emulation) and a fast internet connect (it needs to download 1.3GB of OSM data). Depending on the size of the area and a machine it can take anywhere from 15 minutes to a few hours.

The process of generating data for a new area is provided in the form of a Docker container.
You will need to provide four pieces of information:

- `AREA_NAME`: Name that will be visible in the app to the user.
- `NAME`: Name that is used as a key within the `demoland_engine`.
- `AOI_FILE_PATH`: Path to a file relative to the current working directory (avoid `../`) containing polygon geometries defining the extent of the area of interest. Can be any file readable by `geopandas.read_file`.
- `GTFS_FILE_PATH`: Zip file with GTFS data covering the region of interest. Go to https://data.bus-data.dft.gov.uk/downloads/, register, and download timetable data for your region. Pass the file without any changes.

The best option is to create a folder with the two required files, navigate to the folder and run the container.

The container is not public, so you need to ensure you are logged in to ghcr.io within Docker. Follow the [Github docs](https://docs.github.com/en/packages/working-with-a-github-packages-registry/working-with-the-container-registry#authenticating-with-a-personal-access-token-classic) to do that. Note that to be able to pull the container, you need to have at least read permission of the `demoland-engine` repository.

Example:

```sh
docker pull ghcr.io/urban-analytics-technology-platform/demoland_pipeline:latest
docker run \
    --rm \
    -ti \
    -e AREA_NAME="Tyne and Wear" \
    -e NAME="tyne_and_wear_v1" \
    -e AOI_FILE_PATH="geography.geojson" \
    -e GTFS_FILE_PATH="itm_north_east_gtfs.zip" \
    -v ${PWD}:/app/data \
    --user=$UID \
    ghcr.io/urban-analytics-technology-platform/demoland_pipeline
```

The container generates two ZIP files. One shall be used in `demoland_engine`, and the
other shall be used to deploy the app.

The file `engine.zip` contains files to be added to the `data` folder of the `demoland-engine` repository. Use the information in `hashes.json` to update `data.py` in the `demoland_engine` code. The result should look like the [PR #7](https://github.com/Urban-Analytics-Technology-Platform/demoland-engine/pull/7).

The file `app.zip` contains all the necessary files to generate the webapp. Note that the new version of `demoland_engine` with all the files from `engine.zip` and correct hashes needs to be deployed before the app. See the [dedicated documenation on the app deployment](https://github.com/Urban-Analytics-Technology-Platform/demoland-web/blob/main/CUSTOM_AREA.md). There's no need to pay a lot of attention to the contents of each file as all of them are autogenerated by the pipeline.

### Building the container

To successfully build the container, navigate to the root of the repository and copy the
necessary data files there as well. The required files:

- `air_quality_model.joblib`
- `grid_adjacency_binary.parquet`
- `grid_complete.parquet`
- `house_price_model.joblib`

All four need to be present in the repository at the time of building as they are copied
to the container. You can then build the container and upload it to GHCR as:

```sh
docker build -t ghcr.io/urban-analytics-technology-platform/demoland_pipeline -f Dockerfile.pipe .
docker push ghcr.io/urban-analytics-technology-platform/demoland_pipeline:latest
```

### Deployment to Azure Functions

The repository includes a GitHub Action which automatically deploys the main branch to Azure Functions.

For manual deployment steps, see the [Developer Notes section](https://urban-analytics-technology-platform.github.io/demoland-project/book/developer_notes.html#azure-functions) in the DemoLand book for instructions.
